Intro, Use Case & Demo
Hello and welcome to this end to end datab bricks video course where we will
be implementing a use case from scratch end to end leveraging all of the latest
data bricks functionalities. In this course we will be using features such as lakeflow connect to ingest data from
different data sources. We will also use lakeflow declarative pipelines to pre-process the data to build the
medallion architecture on data bricks. We will also train a machine learning model using mosaici and mlflow and we
will be also using lots of very new features such as datab bricks apps and lakebase. This course is intended to
give you a good overview of what kind of datab bricks services and features do
exist how do they work together and what should I use when to build an end toend
solution. And all of this working on a real life use case working with real data and I will be also sharing all of
the code and all of the resources shared in this video course so that you can go along yourself and also implement this
in a free databicks workspace. Now next I will introduce the use case for this end to- end project for you and what we
are trying to achieve and afterwards I will also show you an end-to-end demo of what we are going to build in this video
course so that then afterwards you can decide if this is relevant for you or you would like to only skip to very
specific parts. Now let's start with the use case. Now let me quickly introduce the use case we will be working on in
this project. Imagine you're working for a car insurance company with data bricks. We want to solve two things.
First, we want to bring all data of our company together. Meaning the customer
information, the claims data, the policy data, the telemetics data that we capture in the cars. We want to create
the single source of truth within data bricks so that we can run proper analytics on top and at the end take
smarter business decisions. Second, we want to improve the claims process at our company. Currently, it's super
manual. So whenever a customer submits this claim of a car crash, a human
manually checks everything. We want to automate that within databicks. So we want to automatically verify several
things such as what was the driver's speed, right? We got this from the telemetics information. Things like is
the customer even eligible for this refund based on their policy and things like that. And then maybe also super
interesting, does the car damage described by the customer, does it even make sense? So they upload a picture of
the car crash whenever they submit a claim and then they self-classify basically the severity of this car
crash. And what we want to do is we want to train a machine learning model based on several images of car crashes and we
want to automatically classify their uploaded image and then we also want to
check if the classification from our machine learning model matches what the customer has described. So to make this
happen, we are building the lakehouse architecture on data bricks. We will ingest data from three key data sources.
We will have a SQL server holding customer policy and claim information.
We will also ingest data from a data stream. In this case, it's Kinesis data streams where the telemetics data is
streamed into. And we will also ingest data directly from an object store. In
this case from Amazon S3 where the actual images of the car crashes are uploaded for the ingestion as well as
data quality checks and transformations. Later on we will use lake flow within data bricks to train the car damage
classification machine learning model. We will use mosa and its ml flow capabilities within data bricks and then
expose it via a model serving endpoint. We will build standard reporting dashboards for this insurance company
using a SQL warehouse as well as AIBI dashboards within databicks. And we will
also make the data available through a natural language interface using databicks genie. And finally, we will
create a portal for the customers to submit their claims. And we will also
have an admin view within this portal to review all of the claims. And for that,
we are going to use a combination of lakebase to get this low latency access to our data as well as datab bricks apps
to build the actual front end. Now before you decide to watch this whole tutorial which is probably 2 hours or
more at the end I will give you an overview of what will be the output of this end to end project. So what we do
here is we build an end toend solution within data bricks. We will build this architecture that you see right here. We
will create a catalog called smart claims defaf with four different schemas inside. We have a landing schema which
will be used to land our initial data in. Then we have the raw schema where we will create lots of different tables
around claims and policies and customers that come from different data sources. We will ingest data from a SQL server
for example using lake for connect and we will also stream telemetics data in for example. We will clean all of this
up and also build those silver tables right here where we apply data quality checks and cleaning operations. And then
we will also build gold level tables where we aggregate and join data together. And we will also train a
machine learning model to classify the severity of images. For this we will use lakeflow declarative pipelines to write
the actual transformations and I will provide you with all the code that you need to build this project end to end.
And we will also make use of this new lakeflow pipelines editor that you see right here. After we ingest the data
from all those different data sources and process it within data bricks and train the machine learning model, we
will make it ready for consumption for different kind of users. So we will build this dashboard here together to
have a report on the analyzed data. We will also build a genie space to analyze
the data in natural language. And maybe one of the highlights, we will also build a datab bricks app as you can see
right here, which will serve as the entry point for users who wants to
submit their claims. So they can basically upload here a claim image,
right? They will be able to provide some more details like their policy number, their location as well as the amount
they claim. Here we will provide an accident date and they provide also a selfassessed
severity which will then be compared against what our machine learning model predicted. And we will select a
collision type right here. How many vehicles were involved? And then they can submit the claim. And all of this
gets processed. And there you go. You see for this specific claim the outcome was it's all super fine. the image that
they uploaded matches the severity that our machine learning model predicted and also lots of other stuff that we check
here out of the box is fine. So we will release the fund for the customer in 3
to five business days. If any of those checks would have failed then we would see this message here that further
investigation is needed. Investigation is also something built into this databicks app. So, if we click into the
admin mode right here, you will see that we will also build this admin panel for
internal employees to check all of the claims that were submitted. You see an
overview of how they were classified as well as the total amount that was claimed. You will be able to filter here
for the different severity types. And we have an analysis page where you can then
see for each of the different claims if they pass the different checks. You will
see all the claim details and you will see also all the customer information as well as the image that they uploaded and
all of this is also powered by lakebase. All right, I hope this made you excited about project that we are about to
build. And now we will start by ingesting the very first data source.
Ingesting Streaming Data
All right, let's switch into data bricks and get started here. So before we dive into the first ingestion pipeline, let's
have a quick look how our catalog is set up, how our unity catalog is structured here. So we have one catalog called
smart claims dev. This will be the main catalog we will be working with. And inside there we have four key schemas.
The first one being the landing schema where initially our files that are not
yet converted into delta format land in our object store. Right? And then we
have the typical three layers of a medallion architecture. We first have our brass schema here where we will
transform our data in delta but leave it as is. In the silver one, we will do our
first cleaning operations. We will do some standardizations things like that.
Some data quality checks and then in the actual gold layer we will have our aggregated data our joint data ready to
consume by for example NBI tool. Cool. For the first data source we would like
to ingest streaming data. In our use case we have those teleatic sensors in
the different cars and they stream data into Kinesis data streams. Kinesis data
streams is a managed service by AWS. It's kind of similar to things like
Kafka where you can stream messages in and then within data wigs to ingest it
into the Unity catalog we need to read from the stream and create delta tables
out of that. For this we will create a new lakeflow declarative pipeline
formerly known as DT. And all we have to do is click on new ETL pipeline. Provide
a name here. Let's call it Kinesis ingestion. Let's provide the default catalog and
schema. We can now read and write from different uh cataloges and schemas, but this will be our default one right here.
And we select smart claims defaf and browse as we would like to directly
transform the data into delta format and store it in a brows layer here. And here we select start with an empty file and
we select Python as our language in this case. We could also do that with SQL,
but for now, let's stick with Python. And what you see here now is the new
Lakeflow declarative pipeline UI. It's kind of an IDE specifically designed to
work with LakeFlow declarative pipelines. It's currently in beta and it's it's super nice. You will see in a
second how the end to end workflow looks like. Here on the left side, we have an overview about all of our files in this
project. So let's maybe rename this one to Kinesis simple as we will start with
an simple example here and we're good to go. On the right hand side you will see
later on the graph being built automatically and visualized and on the
bottom we will later see the actual tables created by this pipeline here and also see some sample values to make sure
we are on the right track. Now what we want to do is we want to read from the Kinesis stream. So first of all I'm
importing some libraries that we will need later on and then we are defining
some Kinesis specific configuration parameters here. We for example provide
the stream name. So this is the Kinesis data stream we would like to read from. It's located in the US East1 region and
we want to read it from the earliest position. So we want to read the whole stream right from the beginning. And
then this part here is also super important. So we need to authenticate to
our Kinesis data stream from our databicks cluster. And there are several
ways to do so. But what we would like to avoid is somewhere storing hard-coded
secret values. We also don't want to mess up with some tokens that we need to maintain that we need to rotate. And for
that the recommended way to do so is going by unity catalog service
credentials. So you see here we specify the service credential called Kinesis
service credential. And this is something I have created already. Let's
have a look in the unity catalog for that. So on the unity catalog if we go
to credentials right here you will see exactly this Kinesis service credential.
Right. So if you would like to create it, it's it's super straightforward. You click here on create credential. It's
not a storage credential. It's a service credential right here, which is supposed to be used to access several cloud
services uh other than than storage accounts, right? All you have to do is provide a name as well as an AM role.
And this AM role is basically allowing us to access the Kinesis data stream. We
don't need to maintain any secrets or rotate any tokens or anything like that and it's all governed by the Unity
catalog which is super helpful. I don't want to show you all of the details how I how I set this up. I will put the
documentation in the description so you can have a look how to create in general those service credentials. And just to
quickly maybe um see how it how it looks within AWS. So I created this role here
called Kinesis service credential role. I gave it the proper permissions to read
from the stream to list the shards and and so on and so forth. It's all documented what you need here. And then
I also provided this trust relationship needed to our external ID which is
basically the connection to our databicks account. Now as we are already in AWS let's also look into the Kinesis
data stream that we are going to use. So there is only one over here and this is exactly this teleatics stream in US East
that we will read from now inside databicks. All right. Now we have the configuration set up. We can
authenticate to our stream through this service credential right here. Now let's
look into the first implementation of our let's say most simple code to
connect to the stream to read from it and to write into a delta table. Here I provided some lakeflow declarative
pipeline code for that. I'm calling the table right here teleatics test. I'm
giving it some additional metadata which you will also see later on in the Unity catalog. I'm describing that this is a
parsed Kinesis data stream holding telemetics data. In this case, it's not parsed yet, but we will change that
later on. And it's really the most minimal implementation how to read from
the stream and write into databicks. All we are saying here is we are reading a
stream from the format Kinesis and we provide as the options all the Kinesis
configurations that we have provided here at the top. And now we're already good to go. So this pipeline here is
configured as a serverless lakeflow declarative pipeline. We could add some additional configurations but I think
for the first test it's good to go. We click on run pipeline and see what happens. And there we go. Our serverless
cluster is up and running. We are reading from the stream as you see right
here. And we have written 40 different records into the target table. So this
is the beauty of this new DT UI over here or the new lakeflow declarative
pipeline UI over here. You see right away first of all the graph. You can see
it alongside the code that you implement and you also see the actual outputs here. So you see this teleatics test
table got created and we can even click into it and see the sample data here. So
we see what was actually written into the delta table without the need to yeah
open another tab go to unity catalog click on the sample values and and so on and so forth. Now you see we have
different kind of columns. We have some metadata sent over from the Kinesis data
stream and then we see the actual data column here but it's still super cryptic and the reason for that is that this is
only the bite data that we now ingested. So we are reading the actual bytes from
the stream and as we have not performed any kind of parsing or any kind of
implementation logic to make this proper readable data we see only the bytes
here. So this is what we're going to change next. We are creating a new file right here and we call it kinesis
par.
The configuration we can just copy over here and then we will make some more
adjustments to actually also parse the records and put it into a proper structure. So first of all we want we
don't want to look into the proper data formats. We just want to make everything a string. For this, we will create this
map type right here and put it into a variable called payload schema.
And now I am ingesting here a bunch of code. So it's a bit more than our previous example, but this will help us
to actually parse our data set right here. So we are again creating a
lakeflow declarative pipeline table. This time we call it telematics advanced
or let's just call it telematics. We again provide some comments table properties and we also again just load
the raw stream. But now you see we are making some more adjustments to actually parse it. The most important thing here
is we are casting it right here to string. So basically we are making the
bytes that we have seen earlier right here readable in a proper string format.
And we create this new column called the raw JSON. Right here we are again selecting all of the additional metadata
from the Kinesis data stream. And we create a new column called decoded data
where we actually even take it a step further. So we are not just pasting all
the data that we converted right here into one column. No, we are actually
decoding it first of all by using this from JSON function and then we are
creating proper columns to our target table. First of all, we will have one
column called stream metadata where we put all of the Kinesis specific stuff. But then more importantly here we are
having the actual data like the speed which will be super important later on
in our analysis. the latitude, the longitude, the event timestamp, the chases number. So the actual data
basically will be put into proper columns now in our target table. So if
we execute this one right here, we will see that the output will now look way
better for us, you see we're getting a new table right here. This time called telematics. Again, it's reading those 40
records that are already sitting inside the stream. And now if we click into the table we see okay now we properly have
our columns right we have our latitude we have our longitude we have the speed
and we basically parsed everything we transformed it from the bite format into
proper strings and then we even further separated it from this big JSON chunk
into different kind of columns in our target table. Now you already saw whenever I'm executing this pipeline
here, it's actually reading from the stream and retrieving all the new data
that was inserted there compared to the last run. And this is also the beauty of
the lakeflow declarative pipeline. So we did not have to specify any checkpointing location and stuff like
that. All of that is abstracted away for us. And we also see streaming does not
necessarily have to be a 247 running pipeline. It can also be
executed in a batch mode like like we're doing it right now. Right? We could also change this. So we could go into the
configuration and we can say okay it's not a triggered pipeline anymore but
it's like a continuous pipeline. And then this would actually run in streaming mode and all the time reading
from our streaming source and ingesting it in real time into our target tables. So let's try this out as well. Let's
make this a streaming pipeline. And then let me under the hood send a few records
in real time into the stream by executing a script I have.
There we go. Scripts started. And you see it's now writing records actually.
So this is basically my script sending records every uh I think 3 seconds or
something like that. And you see the records being updated here in real time. And you can even click on the actual
declarative pipeline and also have this UI if you're more familiar to to that one and see also here for the different
streams. So in this case we are now continuously running the simple stream right here where we not pausing the
records as well as the more advanced stream and both of them ingest data in
real time as this is now a continuously running pipeline. Now I stopped it.
Let's quickly check in the Unity catalog how things look like. We are looking
into the brows and then we see here those two tables. We can delete the second one as this was only for
demonstration purposes. But then for the actual telematics table, we have now
ingested our streaming data from our Kinesis data source. We see it's in proper columns right here. We can uh
look in the sample values. And here we see again what we also saw in the lakeflow declarative pipelines UI. Cool.
Let's now continue with the other data sources.
Ingesting SQL Server
The first step in every unified data platform is ingesting data from the different source systems. One of the key
data sources is often a relational database such as a posgress or a SQL
server where you need to pull data from and load it into your target analytical system such as datab bricks. Due to
performance reasons and maybe real-time requirements, you don't want to load the full snapshot of the database multiple
times per day. Instead, you often would want to incrementally ingest only the changes from the source database into
the target system. In the past, achieving this often meant stitching together multiple different systems such
as DSium, Kafka, and so on. But in this hands-on video, I will show you how you
can do that very simply using datab bricks and lakeflow connect. We will build a pipeline in data bicks to ingest
all the inserts, updates, and deletes from a SQL server into databicks. First
by doing all the needed configurations on the database site itself and then inside datab bricks we will create this
pipeline to incrementally ingest this change data feed and stream it into a
delta table. Now let's jump right into data bricks and get started. All right now we are in data bricks and we want to
ingest the data. Right. Currently our catalog and schema setup looks like this. We have this smart claims defaf
catalog which is our main catalog and we want to ingest the data in the SQL
server into this browse schema right here. Currently we have only one table here. This is from the last video. But
now we want to ingest three more tables which currently sit in the SQL server.
This is the claims data, the customer data and the policy data. For this, all
we have to do is go over here into the data ingestion tab and then at the top
you see those datab bricks native connectors. And today we are going to use the SQL server one right here. If
you don't see it in your account, you need to enable it in the preview settings of the workspace and then you
can go ahead and click into it. I would say the setup is very straightforward. We need two components of this ingestion
pipeline. First of all, we need an ingestion gateway. This is what we are giving a name for right here. Let's call
this demo ingestion gateway. There we go. Then we select here the
location for the staging ingestion data. So what is this all about? Right. So
this ingestion gateway, this is the first component of LakeFlow connect. And this will be the actual compute that is
used to connect to the transaction log to the change data feed from your source
database in this case SQL server and it will read from there all the insert
update and delete operations performed on the database and it will write it into a unity catalog volume and this
volume location is what we specify here. So if we select our catalog right here
the smart claims dev for the schema we would select the the landing schema right here. This is the first part of
lakeflow connect. The next part is what you see here. This is the ingestion pipeline and this is what will actually
do the upsert operations into our target bronze table. Right? So this is a
separate pipeline. We have the ingestion gateway reading in all the transaction logs, all the inserts, updates, deletes,
pushing it into a volume and then we can basically schedule this ingestion pipeline which will read from this
volume and apply all the inserts, updates, deletes into a target delta table. So let's call this demo ingestion
pipeline. And here we now need to select a connection as you can see here. So
this is basically a unity catalog object that we created beforehand where we
specify the host right where we want to connect to as well as the credentials to connect into the target system. Here we
already have this one. If we click into it we will be routed to the Unity catalog and we will see that we created
here this connection which is a SQL server connection. We provided the URL, the host, the port to connect to as well
as a username and a password to authenticate to that. Right? All right. So now before we create the pipeline and
actually continue, there are a couple of things that needs to happen on the source database site. So we need to
enable a few configurations. This is typically done by a database administrator to make sure first of all
this transaction log is even written by the database and to make sure we can read from it. For this, let's quickly
have a look how our database looks like and what we need to enable exactly. All right. Now, we are in data grip. Data
grip is kind of a database IDE. And here we will have a look on our data in the
database as well as the configurations that we need to make. First of all, I mentioned we have three different tables
that we want to ingest. This is also what you see here on the left hand side. So I connected to my SQL server which is
hosted on RDS and we see the free tables here and if we query them we can also
have a look how they how they look like. For the customer one you see we have like the customer ID a date of birth and
so on and so forth. The policy also holds some kind of data related to the
different policies of the customers and then the claim data holds the actual information about the different claims
performed by the customers. Now to ingest this data with lakeflow connect we need to do a couple of things as I
mentioned and this is what we're going to do next. First thing we have to do and by the way you find all of this also
in the datab bricks documentation is to enable the change tracking on the
database itself as well as on all of the tables. For this we can execute this command. We alter the table claims defaf
and we set the change tracking on. In this case we have already done this in advance. And then for each of the
different tables we are altering them and enable change tracking for claim as
well as for the customer table right here. This is the first step. After we
have enabled the change tracking we need to enable CDC as well again on the
database as well as on each of the different tables. For an RDS SQL server database the syntax looks like that. So
we execute this command for the database and then for each of the tables again we need to separately enable CDC on the
table itself. So we do this for the policy for the claim and also for the
customer table. This is already almost it. There is one more step. There is a script provided in the database
documentation to set up the DDL capture and the schema evolution on the
database. So for this all we have to do is to click on the database click on SQL
scripts and then we run a SQL script and here we select the one that we have
downloaded from the datab bricks documentation. All right and now we're good to go. So we can switch back to
datab bricks and here we can continue with the setup of our ingestion
pipeline. Right. So we specified the catalog here and we specified the connection. We can click on create
pipeline and continue. And now what is going to happen? So this will take typically a couple of minutes because in
the background now there is a VM set up for the ingestion gateway. So this is
the one that will be used now to read from this transaction log from the database from the SQL server using this
connection that we have provided and we'll write it into a volume which will
then be picked up by the ingestion pipeline afterwards. Right? So here we need to wait a couple of minutes. This
is currently not available yet in serverless. So this will be always a classic compute VM. You can also check
it in your underlying AWS or Azure account. So let's wait for that and then we can proceed with the next steps.
Cool. After a few minutes you will see something like this. So now we are connected to our SQL server through the
ingestion gateway. And we basically see an overview of our database of the schema and of the different tables that
we have. And now we can select which tables we actually want to ingest. In this case we want to ingest the claim
customer as well as the policy. So we select all of them. And then we click on next right here. Now we have to select
where to put basically the destination tables. So inside data we want to put it into this browse schema right here. So
we select save and continue. We see the ingestion pipeline was saved. And now
the pipeline configuration is validated. There we go. We are on the very last step. Here we can provide some
additional configurations for this ingestion pipeline itself. So here for example we can add a schedule so that
the ingestion pipeline is executed every hour for example. So again we have those
two parts right we have the ingestion gateway which is running all the time and getting the changes from the source
system and putting it into a volume in data bricks and then we have the ingestion pipeline which is then using
the inserts updates deletes from the volume and inserting it into a target table in our browse layer and this is
basically the ingestion pipeline configuration here we can click on save and run pipeline and then we get
directly moved into the databicks jobs and pipelines UI. And here the job is
executed. All right. And there we go. The pipeline is set up as well. And now
it basically starts to ingest the data into the three different target tables.
You see it's doing this in parallel for the claim, customer, and policy table.
And that is already it. So all three tables have been ingested. So you see there were 13,000 records for the claim
table upserted for the customer. it were around 7,000 and 12,000 for the policy.
Now let's check if this is actually true. So we go to the catalog and we click on our smart claims defaf catalog
and first of all inside the landing one we should see something exactly here. We see this volume which was created to
initially by the ingestion gateway insert a snapshot in this case of the source database. So as this was our very
first run, it did a snapshot right of the source database. And now for the next executions, it will only track and
only insert the recent changes, the inserts, updates, deletes. Right now we see next to the telematics one that we
already had before, we see the claim, customer, and policy tables. They're all streaming tables because under the hood,
the ingestion gateway as well as the ingestion pipeline is running a lakeflow declarative pipeline, formerly known as
DT. Therefore, it also creates streaming tables and we see the schema here
matches the one that we had in the source database. And if we click into the sample data, we can actually see
data right here, right? So, it all worked. So, what we can do now to check if if also the incremental updates work
because currently it just basically inserted the snapshot, right? But now we are interested in the incremental
changes that happened during the day. So what we can do is we can switch back to our data grip and here we can for each
of the different tables we can basically execute an insert and update and delete
and see if it's propagated properly to our target delta tables. Now let's do this right. So we will insert to the
policy. We will insert this record right here. There we go. One row affected.
Then we will update from the claim table one of the claims to change the incident
severity that is set there. So we execute this one and as a last step we
will also delete one record from the customer table. So let's delete this one
right here. Now we also see one row affected. Now let's switch into datab bricks and look into how to ingest now
those incremental changes into datab bricks. in datab bricks. All we have to do now is to execute this ingestion
pipeline. Before we do that, let's quickly check here. I prepared a few SQL statements to make sure that we actually
apply the changes. Right? So, if we query the customer, this is the one that we just deleted in the source system. We
see here it still exists. For the claim, we see that if we query that the
severity type is set to total loss. We changed that on the source database. And
for the policy, we ingested the new record with this policy number. But here in databicks, it does not exist yet,
right? Because we have not yet applied all the changes from the source system. Now, when we execute this pipeline here,
we can do this by just starting this pipeline right here. And now it will basically update all the tables based on
the most recent changes in our source database. Perfect. Here we already basically see that it worked. We see
three changes were recognized. For the claims one, we have an upsert. For the customer one, we see a delete. And for
the policy, we also see an upsert. Now, if we re-execute our three statements
right here. Now, if we start maybe with the policy one, we see this record was
successfully inserted. So, it was not there before. For the claims table, we
change the severity type here. So if we execute this, we see here the new
incident severity that was set to minor damage. And for the customer that we deleted, we should now see no records
here. And if we execute this exactly, we see no records returned. So we
successfully basically executed all the changes on the source system. Awesome.
That is already it. We have implemented successfully an incremental pipeline to
track first of all all the inserts, updates, deletes that happen on the source system. I've provided you all the
configurations that you have to do on the source database in this case the SQL server. We have created this ingestion
gateway as part of the lakeflow connect to read all those changes and to put it into a volume in datab bricks and then
also this lakeflow connect ingestion pipeline will read all those changes and
apply it whenever we execute it to the target systems. So this way now we have a fully functional higherformant change
data capture pipeline and we have set all of this up within minutes using only
lakeflow connect within data bricks and I think this is a super powerful solution right here.
Ingesting Object Storage with Autoloader
One of the most common data sources in lakehouses is actually a file sitting in
an object store. someone pushes their CSV files or JSON files or just images
into your S3 bucket or Azure data lake and now you have to figure out how do I
ingest this data incrementally into my data platform such as datab bricks and transform it into a proper lakehouse
format such as delta or iceberg. If you implement this you probably have the following questions. How do I figure out
which files have I already processed? Do I need to maintain a separate metadata
database only for that purpose? Also, how do I make really sure I read the files only once? And what do I do with
schema changes? And also, last but not least, how do I archive or delete the
files that I have already processed so that I don't have to store the files twice? The answer for that in data
bricks is autoloader. This video will show you hands-on how you can set up autoloader within data bricks together
with lakeflow declarative pipelines to build this incremental file ingestion pipeline and then also afterwards
archive the already processed data using the new autoloader functionality called clean source. Now let's get started and
let's dive right into databicks. And here we are within data bricks.
Before we dive into the actual code to load the data from S3, let's check our catalog structure again. So here maybe
to recap if you have not seen the previous two videos. We have a catalog
called smart claims defaf. And then inside there we have four key schemas. We have the landing schema, the bronze
one, the silver and the gold one. For today the main focus will be on the landing and on the bronze one. Now let's
look into the landing volume right here. So you will see that we have two new volumes here. One is called claims and
the other one is called training images. Those two volumes hold all of the data that we need for this video. So we are
planning to create three new tables. One for the training images. So those will
be images of car crashes that we're going to use to train our machine learning model later on to classify the
severity. And then we have the claims volume. And here we have a couple of folders. First of all, we have again
images. These are the actual images of the accidents and uploaded by our
customers for specific claims. And then we have also within this claims volume
additional metadata describing what these images are about. So we have like this CSV file having more information
what kind of image ID it actually is, what kind of claim number this uploaded
image refers to. And then you will see in this folder structure we also have this archive folder here. And this will
be the one that we will use later in this video to move the already processed files into. All right, this is all you
have to know for now. And we want to use this data right here. So this volume is just pointing to an S3 bucket, right? So
if we click into the details tab, we see okay, this is pointing to this storage location and we want to read this data
incrementally and then we want to create browse tables out of this. You see the
ones from the last video and here we will create three new tables. Next for
this what we do is we create a new ETL pipeline right here and this will be again um a lakeflow declarative
pipeline. Let's call it inest object storage and we select our catalog as
well as the schema and in this case the browse schema because we want to write into this one and then we create an
empty file for now. And there we go. So now we are again in the new lakeflow declarative pipeline UI that you see
that you can enable in the previous settings. And now we want to create those three tables that I just described
those three bronze tables. And for each of the tables we will explore different autoloader functionalities. And we start
with the most basic example. Now we zoom in a bit and then we start by specifying
some metadata about our target table. So we start with the training images. We add a comment here as well. And then we
also add this table property describing it's a browse level table. And now the implementation of autoloader is actually
the most minimal implementation that you can have. So all we do here is we are
reading the stream and putting as a format cloud files right here. And this
basically means that we are going to use autoloader under the hood to incrementally read the files from the
specified location. We do one more configuration. We set the format to binary file as we are dealing with image
data right here. And then we specify the volume path and this will be the one that we have just seen where we have all
of our image data that we will use later on for training purposes. We don't do any fancy stuff here like archiving
files or handling schema evolution. This we will look into next as well. But for now, let's just execute the most minimal
configuration right here. Typically, if you work with autoloader outside of the declarative pipelines, you would need to
make some additional configurations such as setting the checkpoint location, the schema location. Here it's all handled
for you. So really, all you have to do is specifying where you want to read
from and that you want to read in the format cloud files and that's it. There we go. The cluster is up and running.
The pipeline is being executed and we are reading from our object store and we
will probably see here a few written records. There we go. We have 56 written
records right here. So this means we have now successfully created this table and have read the data from the object
store. Now, if we would add more data into this S3 bucket and re-execute this
pipeline, it would automatically figure out what has already been read and only
read and ingest the new files right there. We will see this for the next table in action. But for now, let's also
quickly check if the table was actually created in the Unity catalog. For this, we will jump over here and have a look
into our browse. And there we go. We see the training images. We see that we have
the path right here. We have the content which is the actual image representation
in binary format and also some additional metadata right here. Cool. That was a very simple example. Now
let's look into some more advanced autoload functionalities as well. First of all for the next table let's look
into schema evolution. Right. So we ingest now uh the metadata of the images
and we will look into how we can handle schema evolution for for example CSV
files. For this first of all let us paste some code here and this is really exactly the same code that we have seen
earlier just pointing to another subfolder in our volume and creating
another table. So this will be the claims images metadata and in this case it's CSV files. Right. So for now it's
exactly the same what we have seen right now. And here I want to elaborate a bit
more on the schema evolution. So one parameter that you do not see here because it's set by default is this one
right here. So cloud files schema evolution is set by default to add new
columns. So this means if I run this pipeline to ingest the data and then on
the next run I have added for the new records another column right it will add
it automatically also to our delta table schema. So now let's try this out right
we will run this pipeline right here and we will create this claims images meta
table and for now we keep it with the default with like the schema evolution
mode set to the add new columns right here and there we go this one is also
being created and uh instead of going into the unity catalog we can also just see some sample
data right here so there we go we have this table successfully inserted right
here. And now what we want to do is we want to add some more data into this
free bucket with a new column. And this data will look like this here but with the difference that it will have another
column and we will see how the behavior is with this default configuration first
of all and then we will make some changes to that. Now to do that I will do the following. I will go to the Unity catalog, go into the claims metadata and
then right here I will upload some data. So I can do this right from data bricks instead of going through the AWS
console. In there I will upload a record right here. We will also have a look
into it in a second. So if we open it we see it's just one record. It looks
exactly the same like the previous ones with the exception that here we have this new column right and we specify it
as a value new column value one. Now let's get back to our pipeline and here we just re-execute this one and see what
happens. So now we see for the first time we see the actual autoloader functionality as it knows now okay the
first file we have already processed and ingested and now it will only ingest basically the new file. So for written
records we should see just one right here as our new file has only one
record. Right? There we go. This is exactly what we see right here. And now if we have a look at the data again we
will see that we have a new column here that is set to null for most of the
records. But there should be one record that has a value here. The one that we just uploaded into the S3 bucket. Now
let's check this as well. For this, we just open the SQL editor and then we just query for this record that we have
ingested. And there we go. We see it actually has a value right here. And all the other records from our initial load,
they don't have this column here specified. And this is exactly the default behavior. Now, if we want to
change this, right, we can do the following. So here instead of specifying add new columns for this schema
evolution mode we will put in rescue right here. And now we will see how this
behaves with a new file being uploaded. For this again same procedure we go into
our volume and we upload yet another file right here. Let's see how it looks this time. It's again just one new
record but in this case it does not only have this new column here, new column
one. It has even one additional column, new column two that was not there before, right? Not even in the second
file that we uploaded that already had this new column one. This new column 2 is something completely new. Now with
the previous behavior, it would again just put this new column into the actual schema and then it will put lots of null
values for all the records except this one that we just inserted. But now as we changed the configuration to put the
schema evulation mode to rescue it will behave a bit differently. So now if we re-execute this one again we have one
record written. So this is the new one coming from our latest file. And now if we click into the data we see here that
we do not have this new column 2. Instead what happened? It will use now
this rescued data column right here to put in all the values that are different from this other schema that we have
right here. Now to make this more clear, we go again back to our SQL editor. And
there we query now for this new record and you will see this one has the new
column two this time in the rescued data right here. Right? And any new column
that we will add will land now in this rescued data one right here instead of adding actual new columns as we have
seen with the default previous behavior. And this is how you can control basically schema changes using
autoloader. All right. Now if we check the unity catalog we have not only the training images but also the claims
images metadata successfully ingested right here. And now as a last step the accident images are missing. And for
this we want to explore this new autoloader functionality to automatically either archive or delete
files once they have been processed. And for this we see in the volumes if we click into the claims one again we see
we have already created this archive subfolder right here which is currently
empty. This is where we would like to move our already processed data on automatically. Why would we do that? So
this could be either a place where we temporarily keep all the files and then later on we delete them or this could be
just a place where we archive everything and this could be another storage tier that is cheaper on the cloud level.
Right? In this case we will not use the declarative pipelines anymore but we will use plain pispar code for this.
Let's switch to a notebook and let's see how it looks like. So first of all I will paste bunch of paths and
configurations and stuff. So I have here different kind of paths. I have the source path. I have the archive path.
And you will also see we have this metadata path right here. Because currently we were working with
declarative pipelines. Lots of things were abstracted away from us that are typically needed to configure in this
autoloader pipelines. If you were working with the normal imperative Spark code, you will see this in a second. So
now what I would like to do is I create a new variable right here where I paste
all the new configurations that we now need to achieve this archiving
mechanism. For this we use the new cloud files functionality called clean source
and it has three different parameters that we need to set here. First of all,
the clean source type right here, we set it to move, right? Because after the
data has been processed, we want to move it to another destination. The other alternative here would be to set this to
delete. So after files have been processed, you would like to delete them. In this case, we would like to
move them. Then for the next parameter, we specify after which time we would
like to move them. In this case, we set it to 1 minute. So 1 minute after we process the files, we would like to move
them to the destination that we specified here, the move destination. And this will be the archive path right
here. And this is what we just have seen in the volumes. Basically the subfolder called archive. And then we paste a
bunch of more code here to do the read and to write it out into a target table.
It looks very similar to the declarative pipeline code that we have seen. We are also pasting here those archive
configurations that we have just set. And for now we will do it in um
available now true mode meaning we execute this on a batch right it will
not run in a continuously running streaming pipeline. So now I will just execute it right here and we will see
what happens. All right the pipeline did just run now. We see it was successfully
executed. And now if we check the Unity catalog and go to the browse schema and then refresh it, we should see right
here this new claim images table that we have now. Now if we check the claims
volume right here and then we go into the archive, we see our files have actually been moved right here. Right?
So it all worked successfully. Sometimes you need to re-execute this pipeline because here the retention duration is
set to 1 minute. Right? And if this is taking less than a minute, then it would probably not move the files and you
would need to re-execute this whole pipeline. But in like a production scenario where you anyways probably have
a scheduled pipeline that runs maybe several times per day, then in one of
the runs, it would definitely pick up this task and move the files to the destination target. All right, and that
was already it. So in this video you saw how you can use autoloadader to very efficiently load incremental data from
an object store and also do things like archiving your process data
automatically. Now in the last few videos we have ingested data from a streaming source from a relational
database and now also from an object store and then in the next video we will look into how to process this data how
to apply data quality checks and how to orchestrate the whole pipeline.
SIlver and Gold Transformations
Data transformations or ETL pipelines are one of the core capabilities of
every data and AI platform. For big data in particular, Apache Spark is the go-to
framework for distributed data processing and the databicks founders are actually the original creators of
Apache Spark. Therefore, obviously, databicks is a great platform to run your Spark code to transform your data
across the Medallion architecture. Now to make data processing pipelines easier, more reliable and also more
performant, databicks a few years ago introduced an ETL framework called Delta
Life Tables which has recently been opensourced as part of the Apache Spark
project and it also got a rename to LakeFlow declarative pipelines or Spark declarative pipelines as well as some
major updates within the framework itself. In my opinion, declarative pipelines offer the following major
benefits. First of all, they unify batch and stream processing as they provide
this declarative interface to write your pipelines. So you can easily switch
batch and streaming whenever your requirements change. Additionally, you get data quality functionalities right
built into the framework and declarative pipelines are really built for incremental processing. So it becomes
super easy to write those pipelines where you always only propagate your incremental new data changes throughout
your whole pipeline. And you can also do things like change data capture and slowly changing dimensions with just a
few lines of code. After you've implemented your data processing pipeline, you probably want to orchestrate everything. And for this
databris offers lakeflow jobs which was previously known as workflows to orchestrate your whole pipeline to put a
schedule on top of it to define triggers job parameters and much more. In this video we will use lakeflow declarative
pipelines to build our silver and gold tables by implementing pipelines to
clean the data to apply some data quality checks and then to join it to make it ready for consumption by
downstream applications. Now let's jump right into databicks and get started. All right, let's go. Here we are within
databicks. And as always, let's quickly check our catalog structure. We are
still operating in the smart claims deaf catalog if you have watched the previous videos. And today we will be mainly
focusing on the silver and the gold schema as we are building the cleaning transformations as well as the
aggregations. So let's quickly check maybe again what we have already here within the landing schema. We have all
the volumes, right? So here we have the volumes that were created by our ingestion gateway to ingest the SQL
server data as well as the volumes that we created to upload the images. And
then in browse we created all those different tables for the claims for the claim images for the customers policy
teleatics and all of that was ingested in the previous parts. And now we would
like to transform this data. We would like to clean it and we want to put it
into a structure so that we can consume it by downstream applications and for this we will clean the tables and put it
into the silver one which is currently empty and then we will also have this gold schema where we will put the
aggregated data into. Now for this we would need to write some code and for that we will again create some lakeflow
declarative pipelines. So we click on new ETL pipeline right here. This time
we call it transformations and then we select our catalog and the
default schema this time should be maybe the the silver one and we will again use
the new lakeflow pipelines editor and for now let's start with an empty file.
Now let's give this some structures. Let's create some separate files for the different stages. We will create two new
files for bronze to silver and for silver to gold. Now let's start with the actual implementation of the browse to
silver pipelines. For this first of all we will import some functions as well as
defining our catalog brows schema and silver schema as we will refer to this
several times within this file. By the way, this could be also later on abstracted away into pipeline
configurations. But for now, let's just hardcode it uh right into here. And now
we can start cleaning our data. And let's start maybe with the claims data
set. To do that, let's maybe quickly first open a new tab to have a quick look into the data set. Right? So we
query from the browse claim table and then we see how it currently looks like. It is already in a quite clean state.
But what we see here for example, we have lots of dates inside here like the license issue date and they are actually
in string format. So we would like to convert them into date format. And this is one of the typical cleaning
operations that you do from bronze to silver. And then we would also like to do some data quality checks to uh make
sure that very important columns such as the claim number, for example, they are
not zero, right? They have a specific value. And then we could also apply some
other checks on the other columns using the builtin data quality functionalities
within the declarative pipelines. So let's do that. So we paste here our initial code. This is just defining
again the name of the table. In this case we will put it into the silver schema. We will call it exactly the same
as we call it in the bronze schema. So again it's just called claim but this time in the silver schema we will set
some table properties to enhance the metadata right here. And now we will add
our data quality checks. And for this we can leverage this builtin data quality
functionalities within the declarative pipelines. So what we do here for now we
could add much more here but we will just focus on two quality checks for now
per table and for this claim table we check two things right first of all this
is the syntax how you create those data quality checks within the declarative pipelines. So you just specify right
before the table definition you specify expect all for example if you have
multiple checks and in this case I am defining two data quality checks and
then here I specify the actual logic that is used to perform this data quality check. So here it's super
simple. I'm just saying claim number is not null and then I have a second check
checking for the valid incident hour. Right, we have this column called incident hour and I just want to make
sure it's between zero and 23 to make sure this is not some weird number that
does not make sense. So now you might be wondering, okay, what if one of those data quality checks right here is not
passing? Right? So what if I have a claim number that is indeed a null or what if I have an incident hour that is
maybe 45, right? The default behavior as I just specified here expect all is to
give me a warning right I will see later on in the user interface there were
several records maybe out of the thousand records that I ingested maybe
10 of those did not pass this data quality check and then I will see it
visually as a warning right but maybe that's not enough maybe I want to have
different actions based on the results of these these data quality checks. So what I could do here as well is instead
of saying expect all which just would give me the warning I could also say
expect all or drop. So actually for those records that do not pass these
data quality checks now it would drop the record out of the target table and
this is most likely what we would like to achieve for most of the use cases. There is one more alternative that we
could do. So instead of saying expect all or drop, we could also say expect all or fail. So now if one of the
records of my source table does not pass one of those two data quality checks,
then it would fail the whole pipeline. If I would want to make sure, okay, if
any of my input records something is not passing those two checks, then maybe I
don't want to continue at all. I I first want to fix on my source system what the
problem may be. Then you could also specify this behavior right here. For our use case, we go by expect or drop
for now. And now we can go ahead and specify what we would like to check. So
first of all, we are reading in our brows table right here, right? Performing a read stream operation and
then we are returning this browse table with a couple of modifications on top. And these are our data quality checks
that we perform right here. So if we make this a bit bigger, you can see for
this table, our main transformations are adjusting the date format. And this is
also very typical. So in a lot of the cleaning pipelines, you often mainly do
some data quality checks plus you do some data type transformations to put
everything into proper data formats that you expect down the road. So here we are
making those transformations on three different columns on the claim date on
the incident date as well as on the license issue date and as all of them
have a slightly different date format you see here that I specify okay in this case for the incident date it looks like
this currently and for the license issue date it's like the other format that you can see right here the rescue date is
something we got out of our first ingestion pipeline if you have followed the last video when we used autoloader
and here we are dropping this for our silver table. Now before we add all the other data quality checks for the other
pipelines, let us quickly run this and see what the outcome looks like
especially with our data quality checks that we apply now. There we go. The pipeline is being executed and we should
see the results in a second. There we go. So now we have created our silver table. We can have a look into it and
look at the preview tab of this lakeflow declarative pipelines. And now you see already here the icon and also if we
hover over it, you see the claim date is now a proper date format. And what we
could also do is we could go back right here in this overview and then we could have also a look here into the
expectations column. If we click into this, we see an overview of our data quality checks that we performed. So we
see in this case 100% of the source records were written into the target
table. So all of those quality checks passed. Basically none of my rows that
have an unvalid claim number or an incident hour. So nothing was dropped.
But if I would have some records right here, I would see them right in this overview and they would not appear in my
cleaned silver table right here. All right. Now let's repeat what we have done for this claim table also for all
of our other tables. I will not go into the detail for all of those. I will just show you some other common data cleanup
steps for the other tables as well. So now let's maybe continue with the policy
table as this is also very straightforward here. I will just copy over all the code. So again it's super
straightforward. All we do here is we are checking for a valid policy number.
And here we we don't have a date that we would like to clean. But here what we do is with this premium column that we have
right here. So this one does have like um values that could be negative. But in the clean version I would always like to
have only the positive values. So I'm applying this absolute function right here to um from the negative records
also store the the positive records in this in this table. Now maybe let's also
have a look into our customer cleanup operations. Here we are doing a few more
things. So if I just paste this right here again going quickly from the top to
to the bottom. I perform a check on the customer ID. Then I read the browse
table right here. Actually for the customer I have this name column which
is having the first name as well as the last name which I would like to split here. So I'm performing some
transformation logic right here to basically get the first name and the last name out of this one big string. So
if we check it out very quickly and query the bronze customer table. This is what I was referring to right currently
in the bronze version we have only this name column where we put the first name and the last name. So here maybe we
would like to split this and this is exactly what we are doing in our cleaning pipeline. On top of this for
the date of birth column in the customer table, we again transform the data type
to get a proper date right here. And then I'm also doing some clean up on the actual address column right here. All
right. Now I will also paste all the other transformations that we do all the other cleanup operations. I will put all
of the code into a git repository after this whole series so that you can have a
detailed look in each and every of those table transformations. But yeah, for all
of them it's really very similar. We're doing this data quality check. We are adjusting the actual data types of the
columns and then maybe for some specific tables we also apply some logic to do
further cleanups. So let's not forget about our image tables. So here we also doing some some cleanup operations on
the claim images as well as on the training images. Now we have put this all together and we can again maybe run
the pipeline and now you also see the graph will become a bit bigger as we
have now lots of tables that we create right here and there we go. So we were
super fast we created all of these tables right here all of our silver tables. Now if we would move basically
our ingestion pipelines that we have built in the last parts in the last videos we could also see uh the full
graph right over here right but for now let's continue like this and we will anyways later in the unity catalog
lineage see the end to end flow of the tables coming from the source system and
then being transformed into bronze into silver and now into gold as well and
gold is what we are going to look into next Right. So now all of these tables
are mainly streaming tables that we have created. And now we would also like to
create a couple of materialized views actually to have those pre-join tables
that we can then consume by a BI tool for example by PowerBI by databicks AIBI
dashboards or even from our custom downstream applications. for this to
better structure it. Let's do it in this other file right here. Again, we are importing a bunch of things. And we are
specifying our gold schema right here. And now we can go ahead and create our
transformations. So let's start with a super simple one which is the aggregated teleatics. Here we are now reading from
the silver table that we have just created in the other file. And now we are basically aggregating we are
grouping by this chess number and then we are aggregating on the speed and then
we're also averaging this this location where the actual speed was recorded right and this is this is quite typical
for streaming data you have lots of small records and most of the time for your actual analytical analysis you
don't need those super fine granular records right for telemetics it could be that every second or something It
captures 10 different records of the speed of the the latitude, the longitude. So often you aggregate here,
you put an average and maybe you say okay uh in this 10second time frame
there was this kind of speed in this kind of location. Now we would also like to pre-join some of the tables that we
have to create materialized views that are basically pre-joined tables and
whenever something is changing in one of the silver tables it will just incrementally update this materialized
view. Right? So here if we create this new table in this case it's a customer
claim and policy join and if we update our silver customer table for example it
will not recomputee this whole target table it will only update our
materialized view based on the new customer record we are by the way
putting here as table properties gold for all of our gold tables and here again it's a super simple pipeline. So
we're just reading in the cleaned policy claim and customer from our silver layer
and then we perform this uh join right here. We are first joining the claims with the policy and then we return the
full join also including the customer information right here. Now let's create one final table right here because you
see here we have now this table having the customer claim and policy information and then we would like to
have one final table that actually also includes the teleatics information. For
this we create this very long name here customer claim policy teleatics table
and again we're reading in the table that we just created right here. So the customer claim policy table and what we
do here is we are joining it with the aggregated telemetics data. All right.
As I mentioned all the code will be uploaded to GitHub so you can have a detailed look. And now let's also
execute this part here so that we have the gold tables created as well. Maybe also to show you one more thing. So you
see here now this pipeline failed as I don't have this geopy library installed
on the serverless cluster. So to fix this what I have to do basically is I have to go into my settings. I have to
go into the environment right here and then then I need to add this dependency to also include this custom library into
our serverless cluster. So I can just put here this version for example. So I save it and then I reexecute it and then
now it should all work. There we go. The run successfully completed now and we see here our full graph on the right
hand side. Again this is missing the the brows tables because we did not put them
in here yet. Um otherwise it would show the whole end to end graph. But for now
we already see okay we created those different tables and you also see the
input tables are mainly streaming tables that we have right here. So those optimized delta tables produced by lake
for declarative pipelines for very high performant input. And then we have on
the next layer is mainly materialized views that we use for example to have
this joint customer claim policy telemetics table. And again, this will
help us to only incrementally reprocess this table whenever new
records come in. Awesome. Now, let's maybe also quickly check the Unity catalog. And then afterwards, we
actually bring everything into a proper pipeline that we orchestrate and that we schedule from time to time. Now, back in
the Unity catalog, we click into our silver and gold schema right here. And
now we see all of those tables were created right there. And we can go ahead
and what we can also do now as in our lakeflow declarative pipeline that we just implemented we did not see the full
lineage because we were building this in separate uh parts and in separate
pipelines basically but now within the unity catalog if we click into the lineage for example let's take this
target table right here. So now if we click into the lineage right here, we see those tables that were created, but
then we also could potentially see the the browse tables right here as well. And this is all created for you
automatically. And you can even check this on a column level. So if you click into one of the columns within a table,
you will see exactly where it came from and where it went to. Cool. Now let's
orchestrate this whole thing. Right. So we have created all the code to ingest the data to clean it to build the gold
tables. But for now we just have done this once. And what we would like to achieve is we would like on a schedule
maybe each hour for example we would like to run this whole pipeline to pull
data from the different source systems meaning pulling data from the SQL server that came in the last hour reading data
from the Kafka stream reading data from the object store and then only for those
new records incrementally pre-process them cleaning them and
creating those gold tables out of it so that then our dashboards on top or our
applications on top they can also then access this newly updated data. For this we click into the jobs and pipelines and
then we create here a lakeflow job right here. So this is the native
orchestration solution within data bricks. It also got an update recently. So make sure you have the new lakeflow
jobs UI on here which is currently in preview. And here we can now stitch basically everything together and put a
schedule on top of it. First of all, let's select the first task right here. So it's structured in different kind of
tasks. Here we could select the ingestion pipeline and this would basically bring us to creating this
whole lake for connect pipeline for the SQL server. Again, as we have already created this, we just select ETL
pipeline right here and we select the demo ingestion pipeline. So if you have
watched the first part, this is what was created by our lakeflow connect pipeline
to ingest the data from the SQL server. So we do this and we give it a name. You also see here you could add some
notifications. For example, if things go wrong, you could specify some retries.
So maybe for some of the tasks you want to retry them several times before
actually failing the whole pipeline. But for now, we'll just leave it as is. and we create this first task. Now here we
could also add the other ingestion tasks such as the pipeline that we have written to read from the stream as well
as the autoloader pipelines that we have created to read the data from the file
system. For now let's leave it with this ingest SQL server and next I will also
show you how to add basically the next step. So here we are selecting again ETL
pipeline as for the bronze to silver to gold we also created earlier in this
part we created this lakeflow declarative pipeline to clean the data and to join the data. So here we call
this cleaning and aggregation and we select this data transformations
pipeline and this is pretty much how it works. We can also now specify some dependencies when when to actually run
this second task here. So we can say okay only if all the previous ones succeeded. If I would have different
separate tasks right here. I could also say if at least one succeeded please
proceed with this here. And then we can structure it like this. You see there are also lots of other tasks that could
be used. So for now we were mainly using the declarative pipelines here as a
task. But as you can see here it could be also just simply orchestrating a notebook, a Python script, a SQL file.
There is also this DBT integration that could be useful. You can put in if and
else conditions within your orchestration pipeline. You could even do looping with this for each task right
here. And you can also even refresh a data bricks dashboard or a PowerBI
semantic model right from within the pipeline. After you have set all of this up here, what you would typically do is
you would create a schedule right here. So you would say for example for this
kind of pipeline it is a scheduled pipeline that I would like to trigger
every hour for example and then this whole pipeline would be executed and
read the new data in from the source systems incrementally process it through all your different stages and then maybe
even publish it to a PowerBI semantic model for example. Except from this
scheduled trigger, there is also a file arrival trigger. And there is also currently in preview a table trigger
that you could use. All right. And that's already it. This is how you would set up this whole end to end
orchestration pipeline to ingest and process your new arriving data on a schedule. Cool. And that was already it
for this part. So we have seen how we can create lakeflow declarative pipelines and use its natively built-in
data quality checks to first of all clean our data and also to apply some
small transformations in this step from bronze to silver to fix data types for
example and then we have also seen how we can use those silver tables and then create gold level materialized views on
top where we join the different tables together but we still keep this incremental way of working and then at
the end we have seen how we can see the end to end lineage as well as how we can orchestrate this whole pipeline end to
end and execute it for example on a schedule.
Machine Learning Computer Vision
While there has been lots of hype around generative AI and foundational models, there are still lots of use cases for
traditional machine learning which make it into production. Bringing machine learning models into production can be a
struggle and that's why data bricks back then created this project called ML flow which is a framework to build production
ready machine learning projects with its tracking and all the machine learning life cycle functionalities. To build a
machine learning model within data bricks but also anywhere else you need to do a couple of things. First of all
you need to ingest and pre-process the data. Often you start with exploring the
data first in a notebook. Then you start your first experiments to build the first models and those you would ideally
like to track. Afterwards, once you're happy with the result, you typically register this model in a model registry
to then version it there and use this also as the central place to pull your
model from to do either batch inference or realtime inference. Additionally, you often also want to have things like a
feature store and also capabilities to monitor your model in production to
automatically, for example, detect drift and to kick off automatically a new
retraining job. All of this is possible within databicks and its native ML flow capabilities. And in this video, we will
work on a computer vision project where we are basically fine-tuning a ResNet
deep learning model to classify the severity of car crashes. So, we want to
upload a picture and then our machine learning model should give us an indication if this damage that we see on
this car crash is rather a small damage, it's a big damage or it's maybe a total
crash. This is actually the fifth part of an end toend datab bricks project where we are currently working on to
build a smart claims application. So if you would like to understand all the context and the use case, I would
recommend to check out the other four videos. But now let's get started and move right into databicks. Now we are
here within databicks and let's have a quick look into our catalog structure and what kind of data we have already
here. In the last parts of this video series, we have created this landing
bronze, silver, and gold schema where we ingested data from various data sources.
We built those bronze data tables out of it. We cleaned it and put it into the
silver schema. And then we even built like aggregations and joints on top and put this into the gold schema. In this
video, we will focus on this training images data set which will be the input for our machine learning model that we
train and then we register it into our gold schema and then we will first of all do batch inference on top of this
machine learning model as well as creating this realtime inference endpoint to then use it in our
downstream application. For this we create a new notebook right here. And for the cluster that we're going to use,
we will create a new cluster. And this time we will use a machine learning
cluster as it has lots of those frameworks and libraries that we need already pre-installed. We give it a name
and we create it. All right. First of all, we install a couple of libraries right here. And then we can already get
started with first of all exploring the data that we have and then making some
pre-processing steps so that we can then train the machine learning model. First of all the data that we are going to
read in is coming from the silver schema and the data is stored in training
images. So if you want to know how it did land here, how we ingested it from
object store, then check out the previous parts of this video series. Now we would like to have a look into it.
All right, there we go. So we see we have in our training images table, we
have the path where the actual image is stored. We have some time data. We have the length. And then most importantly in
the actual content, we have this binary here representing the image right here
in the notebook. It's even visualized. But this is just a binary that we have stored here. And we have the label
right. So this is our training data set. Therefore, we have labels for the different car crashes. And we will use
these labels to train the machine learning model. And in our pre-processing step in our last part, we
basically extracted this label out of the path right here as the names always
have the label in it. Right? Cool. Now we can go ahead and first of all we
would like to resize the image. For this we are implementing a small function
called resize image UDF. UDF stands for userdefined function. And we do this
because we will take as a baseline a ResNet deep learning model and we will fine-tune it. And this model was trained
on image sizes of 224. And therefore we need to resize all of
our input images to basically match this preferred size for the machine learning
model so that we can get better results out of it. So we create this function here. I don't want to go into all of the
specifics. You will find the code at the end of the course in a git repository.
And then we are using this function and apply it to the training data frame
overwriting the column content and applying this resize image UDF function
on the actual previous content. And then we store it in a new delta table called
training images resized. And then we simply execute this right here. Right afterwards, we will also quickly double
check our output table and see if it was created properly. And there we go. You see it looks very similar. The only
thing that changed basically is that we have transformed the content to the proper image sizes. All right. Now our
input training data is ready. Now to train a machine learning model within data bricks leveraging MLflow as the
machine learning life cycle management framework we will create first a new MLflow experiment. For this we click
over here click into custom model training and give it a name. In this case let's call it image claims
classifier. We click on create right here. And there we go. We have this empty experiment created. Now back in
our notebook, we are setting the experiment for MLflow by specifying the
path of the experiment that we just created. And then there is one more step. So we transform our resized images
into this data set variable to convert it into a format that our machine
learning model can understand. And then we split the data set into a training
and into a test portion to use this for the machine learning model training run.
Now we need to make a few more transformations. So even though we resized the image already to the size of
224 earlier, our current data set still has just those JPEG bytes basically and
neural networks do not understand this. they work with tensors and on top of that our resonet model that we are going
to use expects the input to be normalized. So this is what we have to do as well. Therefore we now do all of
this right here. So first of all we are using as I mentioned already the restnet
pre-trained model which we would like to fine-tune and this is from a hugging face basically and then we do all of
those transformations that I just mentioned. All right. So let us execute this now as well. So now we have loaded
this pre-trained image classification model that was already trained on lots
of image data. Now we want to fine-tune it basically on our data. For this we
are loading it right here and we are giving it the labels that we expect as
an output for our classification. In our case, the labels are the classification
of the accident severity. So, is it a minor, is it a major damage and so on
and so forth. And then we can finally get started with the finetuning. Right now, typically in a more production
scenario, we would also have this hyperparameter tuning step here in between now. But for demo purposes, we
keep it simple. So, we provided the training arguments here. And then there is one more step before we start the
fine-tuning. So we basically wrap the model in this format that you can see
right here. So that later on we can first of all easily register it as an ML
flow model in the Unity catalog model registry. And we can also easily then
load it back and do inference on top of it. Perfect. And now we can finally go
ahead again. I will not go through all of this code here. But essentially we are now starting our fine-tuning model
training run here. And um the most important thing is that we are using ML
flow here to run this experiment. We also give it a name right here. And we
are also logging all of the training parameters so that everything is tracked
within this MLflow experiment. So that also afterwards we can really easily
understand how we came up with this model result. So what kind of parameters
were used, what kind of data was used, the hyperparameters and so on and so
forth. Everything is locked within ML flow and uh now we can go ahead and
start this training run over here and you will see it will kick off an ML flow
experiment. So if we click over here, we see that within our experiment that we
created earlier, now this run is being kicked off and we can already click into
it. It will take a while to complete, but you already see lots of parameters
that are used in this training run will be tracked here. And this is super important to not lose track of what
you're doing in your experiments. So that later on if you bring a model in production, you know exactly what kind
of model you bring into production, what the parameters were, what it was trained
on, what kind of model was used, and so on and so forth. And there we go. The
experiment successfully run. And now again to elaborate once more on the
experiment tracking within data, you see all those information here, right? You even see like the notebook that was used
and and much more information. Now what you would like to do is to register this
model that was created out of this experiment into the unity catalog within databicks to first of all govern it also
through the unity catalog and also this is the way how you later on make it accessible for inference. Now let's do
this. Let's go back to our notebook and here we register a new model using mlflow.register model. So this is
registering it in our unity catalog and we specify the name. So we will store
this in the gold schema and call it claims damage level and we will also
give it an alias that this is the pro model. And now let's execute this. And yeah one more thing that we forgot here.
So we need to specify that unity catalog is basically our model registry and this
worked out. So now let's open the Unity catalog and here within the gold schema we see
we have now a machine learning model called claims damage level. We see this alias that we provided with prot and we
see this is the version number one. And if we click into it we can also see that
this was produced out of this training run over here. We have now successfully
trained our machine learning model and we registered it in the Unity catalog.
Now let's test it out. To test it, let's do some batch inference using this
model. To do batch inference within data bricks, what you can do is you can register a spark udf. So we create this
new variable here predict damage UDF and then we specify here that we want to use
this model that we just created and registered in the Unity catalog. What we
can do now is we can create a new table in the gold schema
called damage predictions. And for this we use our silver initial input images.
We add a new column called damage prediction and then here we are leveraging the UDF basically and
therefore we do batch inference using spark and now if we execute this cool
that was successfully executed now let's check out the output table
and here we see exactly the same table that we had earlier but now we have included the damage predictions
basically right so you see the predicted labels right over here and we already See, some labels are wrong, some are
right. And to get a better idea of how it performed, let's create this results
table right here. And then we will plot a confusion matrix
right over here. And then we will see how our model
performed. There we go. So we see it it did okay, right? We also did not provide
that much um image data. We did not do proper pre-processing, proper
hyperparameter tuning and stuff like that. We just used this as an example. And you see here it already recognized
correctly most of the images. So it put 16 into major which were actually major
damages. Uh 13 into minor which were actually minor and then also 13 into
okay which were actually okay. And um and we see here some problems right
where the for example the prediction was okay but it was actually labeled as a
minor damage within our input data set. Also we can write from here serve this
model now in a real time inference endpoint right where we provide now a
name for it. We specify the model and then we also specify the hardware where
this model serving endpoint should run on. So is it like a CPU? Is it a big GPU
for example? And then we uh just click here on create and then we have a
real-time model serving endpoint. And this we have already done. So if we click right here into this uh real-time
serving endpoint, we see it's ready to use. And now we can actually use this
endpoint here in our application that we're about to build to do real time
inference. So as soon as the customer is uploading their image for the claim, we
can in real time classify it and compare it against whatever the customer is
claiming the severity of the images. Cool. So this is the first part what we
wanted to do. So our goal is to build this smart claims process. Right now, we
have a machine learning model that we can use to classify automatically the
images that our customers upload when they submit their claims for their
accidents. But on top of that, we also want to check some additional things before we proceed with the decision if
you want to refund automatically to the customer or if you
want to do some additional manual checks. So one of the checks we do is of course this machine learning model. When
the customer submits their claim, they specify how they themselves would
classify the severity of this car crash. And then we run this machine learning
model and compare basically if this matches what the customer is saying, right? If the customer is saying this is
a major damage, they want to have $100,000 out of us. But actually our machine learning model is saying okay
this is just a very small damage basically and it classifies it as like
okay or minor right then this does not match and it would require an additional check. And then one more thing that we
do here. So we want to do now the batch inference on the actual claim images
where we also leverage this claim images metadata from the first part. So far we have only done it right over here for
the training images right to to build this plot chart. But now for the actual
claim images we also run this batch inference and store it in this output table claim images predicted. This is
what we would like to build as a rule engine to decide if we want to release funds or we want to have some more
investigation by a human. Right? So the first part we already implemented. We have the accident images. We use our
machine learning model to classify the severity and then we compare basically the reported severity against the
machine learning assessed severity. Now we want to check also uh a few more things such as the policy information
and the claim information. So we want to check if the customer that is submitting a claim if their policy they have is
still valid and also if the claim amount that they specify when they submit their
claim if it is actually within the policy coverage or this also requires
further investigation. And then as a last step also for the telemetics data. So all the data coming from the cars
telling us how fast the customer was driving. We also want to check basically
based on the location of the accident and the speed assessment that we do if
the driver was driving maybe too fast. And all of this we take into our decision if we want to automatically
release the funds or we want to do further investigation. Now let's also quickly build all of these other checks.
So this one we we basically already have. But now also for the other checks we will build a small rules engine. And
here we do one more thing be before we look into the actual rules. We create a
table where we join basically our claim images predicted that we have just built
together with our customer claim policy telemetics table because this is the
table that we will use to apply our rules on top. We create a new table that
we call claims rules. This is where we will put all the different rules that we
have and that we can easily apply on top of our input data set. It will all
become very clear in a second. Uh if we create create the first rule basically
and one more thing so we write a small helper function to insert a rule into
this table here. And let us execute those two
cells here. There we go. And now we can create the first rule. And then it becomes I think super clear what we are
trying to do here. So we want to check if for the customer who submits the
claim the claim exceeds the policy amount right the amount that was agreed
on in the policy from the customer that they can claim and for this we specify
this SQL query right here. So this is what will be checked here basically if
this sum insured. So how much is is basically covered by our policy if it's
bigger than total and total is coming from our claim data set and it's
specifying how much the customer claims. Right? If this is bigger then it's all good then it's in the range of my my
customer's policy otherwise it does not match. Right? So this is the first check we do. We insert it into our claims
rules table right here. And then we do similar things for our other checks. First of all, let us also create this
for the machine learning model. So then we go ahead and create this severity
rule. So we check basically if the severity matches what the customer is
reporting in when they submit the claim. We check the speed as well. Here we
basically just hardcode 45. And then we create an output table
called release funds right here where we check against all of the rules that we
specified and if all of them are good to go. So if the customer has a valid
policy amount, if our machine learning model assessed severity matches what they claimed and if the customer is not
exceeding the speed, then we will release the funds otherwise not. All right. And now it should become all
super clear why we did that. Because now what we can do very easily is we can
basically go through all of those rules here and simply apply them on our target
table and then create this claim insights table out of it. And if we do
this and now let us quickly query the table to see the results. Basically it
looks exactly like the previous table but now it has all the results of our checks right in here. So you see these
new columns here. We see for this specific record for example the date was not valid and then we got the different
descriptions of the severity if it matches or not of the speed and then we
got this overarching column that is specifying if the claim
needs more investigation or if all of those previous checks are fine the funds
can be released. And this way we built this rules engine that we can also extend very easily afterwards and then
reapply to our target table to reassess basically all of our previous claims.
All right. And that was already it for this part. So we have seen how we can use data bricks to build very easily
within the notebook a machine learning model and most importantly how we can use ML flow to first of all to track our
experiments and also then how to register it in the unity catalog and then how to do inference on top of it.
Data Consumption
Building a data NI platform is really fun but at the end you don't do it for fun you do it to solve a business
problem. So after you have built your medallion architecture, after you have created your gold level tables, you want
to make the output accessible for your business and there are different ways how you can do that within databicks. If
you simply want to build reports and expose them to your business users, you
can do that within databicks using the builtin AIBI dashboarding functionalities. If that is not enough
for you and you want to have more flexibility in accessing the data, you could also build a genie space within
data bricks that lets you chat with your data in natural language. And if you want to build a custom web application
to include even more interactivity and to also have more flexibility on the
actual layouts, on the designs, on the visualizations, you could build a custom databicks app for that purpose. In this
video, we will look into all of those free options that I just mentioned and we will implement them hands-on. And
now, let's dive right into data bricks. There we go. We are back in datab bricks. Before we start building our
consuming applications, let's have a quick look into our catalog and the structure currently. So, we built within
the last couple of videos. If you're following the full series, we have built this smart claims dev catalog. We have
the landing schema. We have the bronze schema where we transformed all the data we need into the delta format. Then we
have the silver one where we cleaned this data and where we performed some data quality checks. And then we have
the gold schema where we have our aggregated data and our joint data ready
for use by business applications. And we have our machine learning model which we
trained in the last part to automatically classify the severity of car crashes. As I mentioned in the
intro, there are many ways to consume this data now and we will mainly focus on dashboards on Genie spaces as well as
on databicks apps. Let's start with the dashboards. So to create a new dashboard
within databicks, we just go over here to dashboards and then we click on create dashboard. And that's already it.
We can go ahead and get started. We get some instructions how to go about a new
dashboard and we call this claims investigation and we already get the
instructions right here. So first thing we would need to do is to add some data
that is powering this dashboard. So let's do this. And basically what we do here is based on the tables that we have
already created previously based on the for example gold tables that are already
registered in the unity catalog we can now do some queries on top and use this
then for a visualization in the dashboard. So let's select here our catalog and one of the schemas and here
we start with this example. So we are accessing the smart claims dev gold
schema and we use this claim insights table that we produced in the last episode and all we do here is we are
counting the incident severity by the type. Right now you see we added some
parameters right here for the start and the end date so that we can do this dynamic. And let me quickly edit this
and make this a date. And same for this one. That's also a date. And now we can
for example specify the 1st of January here for the start date. And for the end
date, we can specify basically today, right? And then we can run this query
and check out the results right here. So this is just a normal SQL query that we created right here. And then we create
this data set for the dashboard. And this one we can for example call claims
summary. And now we can go back to the dashboard. And here we can actually visualize it right. We can add a new
visualization right over here. We can now either click everything together for
us. So we can select the data set that we just created, right? The claim summary. This is the only one we have so
far. And now I could manually basically select the visualization the x-axis
yaxis color and so on and so forth. Or what I could also do is it is already
even giving me this as a suggest suggestion the incident types distribution. And this is actually what
I want to do here. And then it automatically goes ahead and creates the visualization for me. I could um further
adjust that and say okay I don't want to have a pie chart. I actually want to have a bar chart. I could make it the
other way around. And then I could also do the coloring better by specifying
here that I want to have colors for the actual severity right here. And yeah, I
could further customize this also for the coloring. And this is like a fully functional BI solution that you see
right here. It's natively built into databicks. You don't need like a separate license for any other BI tool.
You can just do it right into here. And it also recently added quite a lot of new features. So we can also now set
things like general themes right here. For example, we can do the dark mode,
light mode, uh switch. Now this is what I have done already previously. And this
is what you can see right over here. So I have created this dashboard with lots more visualizations based on our tables
that we created within data bricks and this gives us basically an overview
about our whole claims that we analyzed within data bricks and yeah now I have
this dashboard which is great. So it shows me an overview of all the claims that have been already processed, right?
It can also show me like outputs of my machine learning model for example. But for this we will use the data bricks
apps in a second. But what else can we do? Right? So we have this more or less
static dashboard that is typically created by certain personas within your
organization. And if you are a business user, maybe this answers most of your
questions, but maybe you would like to know something specific that is not covered yet by this dashboard. Now, what
you would have to do is reach out back to your data analysts, data engineers, and so on to include this into this
dashboard, right? Maybe the data is not even there yet. Maybe there needs to be some some data transformations first.
Maybe it is already there but it just takes time to create the visualization. This is where databris genie comes into
play. Genie is basically databicks managed solution to do text to SQL. So
if we go ahead over here and we create a new genie space and the first thing we
do is we connect it to our data sets. In this case we could select our claim
insights table for example. Maybe we could also select our claim rules that we created earlier. We can select the
claims, the customers, telematics information, all of that and then create the genie space. And now we can
basically go ahead and ask questions in natural language to our genie space. And
genie will convert this into a SQL statement and then execute it on a SQL
warehouse. So it already provides me some sample questions that I could ask based on my input data set. Maybe we say
like, give me an overview of how many claims were classified
with the different severity types. And there we go. We got a response. So, we see like for total loss, we have 1,200
claims. For um trivial damage, it's just about 397 in our data set, right? And
you can even look at the code and see what Genie did. And in this case, it's a fairly simple query, but you could also
ask way more complex things and Genie would figure out what kind of query to apply. Also, how to join the different
tables if you added proper metadata into your Unity catalog. If you also added
like primary key and foreign key constraints, for example, it would be capable also of figuring out how to do
more complex joints on the data set and then give you the output right here. And
it can also do visualizations. All right, this was basically the second possibility how to consume the data
within datab bricks. And now maybe the most exciting one is to build a databicks app. For this, we go to the
compute tab right over here and we click into apps. And first of all, before we look at the app that I already created
beforehand for this use case, maybe let's look at the options if we start from zero. So we create the app right
here and then we get a bunch of different options for different
frameworks. So for example, we could create a streamlit app and we get a
template for a data app, an interactive data app, for an OTP database app for
example and so for the different frameworks we get different options here. To start with a simple example,
let's choose streamllet and let's choose data app right here. And as a next step,
we can provide different resources that the app will use. The resources right
here are the different resources within data bricks that the app can then use to
for example use a SQL warehouse to write a query or push down a query on top of your data set. So for this easy app,
there is only the SQL warehouse as an option. If you would build like a custom app for example and um maybe let's
quickly see how this looks like. Here we can add way more resources, right? So here we can add not only a SQL
warehouse, we can add a serving endpoint for example to easily access our machine
learning model endpoint that we created. We can also add a database which is an
OOLTP database that we will also look into in a second and therefore we can
link our different resources within data bricks so that the app can very easily access. Now let's go back to the simple
example where we wanted to create a streamlit data app and we select our SQL
warehouse. We click on next, next and install. Now we wait a couple of minutes
for the app to actually deploy and then we can access it. Now the app is running. So if we click into it, we will
see how a sample app could look like. We authorize it and there we go. This is
like a sample app and how it could look like. So here we have some input fields to predict the fair on some sample taxi
data set, right? And it's just like um a web app now that we can use. We can
expose it internally in our company and um basically build on top of this
template. Cool. Now we have seen the simple example. Now let's look into the app that I have built already for our
use case which is deployed right here. First of all, maybe before we look into the app, let's quickly check out the
resources right here because here it's a bit more advanced compared to what we
have seen so far. So in this case, I have not only the SQL warehouse, but I have also a Postgress database and a
serving endpoint. So you may be wondering about this database right here. So maybe let's quickly look into
this and then we check out the actual app. So what I have done is I have
created within databicks a lakebase database instance and this is something
that was just recently announced and is currently in public preview. In this compute tab you can create an OOLTP
database right here and this is what I have done. This is a posgress database and it's a relational database. And the
reason I have built this is because if you're building web applications, you often would like to have a smooth user
experience where the different data assets load very quickly. The problem is
if we go always through the SQL warehouse to access our data to for example visualize some customer
information or claim information you would always have some kind of latency because the SQL warehouse is more of an
analytical compute option right it's operating on an object store and with data that is in a columner format right
in in Delta and parket this is where we would typically in applications use a relational database for and And this is
um why I created this OOLTP database right here. And then what I can do here
is I can go to my catalog. I can go to one of my tables. In this case, I'm
choosing the customer claim policy teleatics table as this is the one that
I would like to access from my front end. And I create a synced table out of
it. And sync table means I create a posgress table out of my delta table.
For this I specify the name. I just name it exactly like this. But I put also lake base uh right over here. Then I
select the database instance. And then I choose the primary key which is the
claim number in this case. And then I click on create. And there we go. The
sync is completed. And we also see this is now a synced table which means this
is a lakebase table that we created right here. So out of our delta table
that could be accessed from the SQL warehouse we created a relational
database table a posgress table and now we can in our app go right to the
lakebased database and access this table with very low latency and just quickly
extract some kind of info out of that. To show you how this looks like, we can also here basically query this uh
lakebased database using the posgress editor right inside data brick. So you
see here at the top now we are connected to to posgress not not the SQL server
anymore and we can run queries on top and there we go. We get the results super fast and this is now really going
through the Postgress database and not through the SQL warehouse anymore. And this is what I have implemented in my
app as well. So now we can finally maybe click into it and see what I have built
here. We open it up right over here. And there we go. So this is the app that I
have built for this specific use case. As you can see at the top here, it has two different modes basically. It has
the customer mode which we are in currently as well as the admin mode. The
customer mode is basically to mimic or to give you an idea how the claim
submission process could look like for this use case. So the idea is the customer logs into this portal or it
could also be an app basically and then they submit their claims right here. And
this is what we're going to do now. And then we have the admin mode. And this we will see afterwards. This is basically
for internal use our app that we could use to further analyze all of the
claims, all of the severities for our internal people basically to review all
of the claims that did not pass all of those out of the box checks that we perform. So now let's upload an image of
encar damage, right? Let's choose one of the the major ones. Let's choose maybe
this one right here. This is a major damage here. So hopefully also our
machine learning model should classify this properly. You also see here on the bottom right that we get this popup and
this is what I implemented basically. So just now we did the inference on this image that I uploaded and we saw it's it
was classified as as major right and then um here I provide some more information before I can submit the
claim. So here let's put maybe 2222 as the policy number. We put in the
accident location. So here maybe let's put in Munich. Um we specify the claim
amount. So in this case maybe this was a full crash as you have seen in the image. Maybe we we say okay it's like
30,000 accident date. Let's say it happened today. And then for the self
assessed severity. So this is what I as a customer think this claim is. And here I would put major damage, right? And we
already saw basically that our machine learning model thinks the same. Now we add a collision type. For this one, we
put multi vehicle. We say they were um free vehicles involved. We can put some
additional notes. And now I can basically submit. Now what happens? It's processing the claim. And there we go.
This was quite fast. We already get the information that our claim has been
approved. And what happened under the hood? It performed several checks here. So it checked the image severity, used
our machine learning model to compare the selfassessed severity by the customer with the prediction from our
machine learning model. We checked the policy amount. So those 30,000 that we
inputed, this is still within the policy of the specific customer. We made sure
that the policy date is still valid and we even performed a speed check based on
the teleatics data to make sure that this customer was not driving too fast.
And therefore, we completely automatically reviewed this claim and
already give the information you will receive your refund within 3 to five business days. Now, let's copy the claim
number right here because now we will switch to the admin mode. And the admin mode is built as I mentioned for
internal usage to further analyze the different claims. We we see here we have
the overview and the analysis tab. In the overview tab first of all we get an
overview about the total claims and then also how many were like a major damage,
how many were like a minor damage and so on and so forth. We can even filter here by severity type for example. And this
will also filter our claims list that we see right here. And this is just an overview for us to see. Okay, I have
these many claims with a minor damage for example. And I see the status of the
different claims. So this is what I could implement within my company. All the claims that do not pass this out of
the box checks, they will become under review. And then I know, okay, I should
check all the claims that do not pass those out of the box checks. And then I could log in here as an employee and I
could further investigate the different claims. Now on the analysis tab, if we
click over here, we see even more details for each of the different claims. So here one of the the claims is
pre-selected for a customer called Zims. We see the different severity checks for
each of the different claims. So we see again the the severity matches. Um we
see the accident image uploaded by the customer here. It matches what our machine learning model predicted. In
this case for this claim it's it's also all fine. So it was within the limit. The policy is fine. The speed check was
fine. Now we could also search for the claim that we have just submitted. Let's
do this. And you see this is the image that we uploaded. And you see again that we passed all checks. And this way I
could analyze all of my claims. I would specifically look out for the claims that do not match that do have some
problems right here. So in this case it's all super nice. Um but in other cases I would maybe have a severity
mismatch. I would have a policy amount that is over the amount that is allowed right and maybe an a policy that is not
even um valid any cool. And that was it. That was all I wanted to show you for
the databicks apps part. And I hope you enjoyed it. And yeah, that's pretty cool and quite flexible what we can build
here with datab bricks apps. All right, and that's already it. In this video, we have seen different options how we can
consume the data that we produced and the machine learning models. We have seen how we can build dashboards with
AIBI dashboarding functionality. We have seen how we can also speak with our data
in natural language using Genie. And then we actually saw also how we can really build apps inside datab bricks
that use our different resources that can use our SQL warehouse that can use a
lakebased database and that can also use a model serving endpoint to build really
custom interactive apps that can be used in my organization to serve different
kind of use cases and make the data more accessible. All right, and that was it for this end to end video course.